# Working with i586


The build system supports building for multiple CPU architectures in the same directory tree. Building for `i586` or `aarch64` only requires that you set the `ARCH` Make variable to the correct value. Normally, you would do this in the [.config section, but you can also do this temporarily with the `make ARCH=i586` command, in the shell environment (`export ARCH=i586`) or with the [build.sh script.
## First Time Build

### Bootstrap Pre-Requisites And Download Sources


Follow the instructions for running **bootstrap.sh** to setup your environment on the [Building Redox or [Native Build pages.
### Install QEMU


The **i386** emulator is not installed by `bootstrap.sh`. You can add it like this:
 (Pop!_OS/Ubuntu/Debian)
```
sudo apt-get install qemu-system-i386

```

### Configuration Values


Before your first build, be sure to set the `ARCH` variable in [.config to your architecture type, in this case `i586`. You can change several other configurable settings, such as the filesystem contents, etc. See [Configuration Settings.
### Add packages to the filesystem.


You can add programs to the filesystem by following the instructions [here.
### Advanced Users


For more details on the build process, please read [Advanced Build.
## Compiling Redox


Now we have:

- Downloaded the sources
- Set the `ARCH` environment variable to `i586`
- Selected a filesystem configuration, e.g. `desktop`
- Tweaked the settings to our liking
- Probably added our recipes to the filesystem

We are ready to build a Redox image.
### Building an image for emulation

```
cd ~/tryredox/redox

```


This command will create the image, e.g. `build/i586/desktop/harddrive.img`, which you can run with an emulator. See Running Redox.
```
time make all

```

### Building A Bootable Redox Image

```
cd ~/tryredox/redox

```


- The following command will create the file `build/i586/desktop/livedisk.iso`, which can be copied to a USB device or CD for testing or installation. See [Running Redox on real hardware.
```
time make live

```


Give it a while. Redox is big.
### Cleaning Previous Build Cycles

#### Cleaning Intended For Rebuilding Core Packages And Entire System


When you need to rebuild core-packages like relibc, gcc and related tools, clean the entire previous build cycle with:
```
cd ~/tryredox/redox/

```

```
rm -rf prefix/i586-unknown-redox/relibc-install/ cookbook/recipes/gcc/{build,sysroot,stage*} build/i586/*/{harddrive.img,livedisk.iso}

```

#### Cleaning Intended For Only Rebuilding Non-Core Package(s)


If you're only rebuilding a non-core package, you can partially clean the previous build cycle just enough to force the rebuilding of the Non-Core Package:
```
cd ~/tryredox/redox/

```

```
rm build/i586/*/{fetch.tag,harddrive.img}

```

## Running Redox

### Running The Redox Desktop


To open QEMU, run:
```
make qemu

```


This should open up a QEMU window, booting to Redox.

If it does not work, disable KVM with:
```
make qemu kvm=no

```


or:
```
make qemu iommu=no

```


If this doesn't work either, you should go open an issue.
### Running The Redox Console Only


We disable to GUI desktop by passing the `gpu=no` option. The following disables the graphics support and welcomes you with the Redox console:
```
make qemu gpu=no

```


It's useful to run the console in order to capture the output from the non-GUI programs.

It helps to debug applications and share the console captured logs with other developers in the Redox community.
### QEMU Tap For Network Testing


Expose Redox to other computers within a LAN. Configure QEMU with a "TAP" which will allow other computers to test Redox client/server/networking capabilities.

Join the [chat if this is something you are interested in pursuing.
### Note


If you encounter any bugs, errors, obstructions, or other annoying things, please send a message in the [chat or [report the issue on GitLab. Thanks!
